Solving the water crisis in a fictional country Maji Dogo.

President Naledi has tasked me with finding nuggets of insight that will help the government solve the water crisis in Maji Dogo. After
completing a survey in the country, a database of 60,000 records was created.

The database contains these tables:
  data_dictionary,   employee,   global_water_access,   location,   visits,  water_quality,  water_source,  well_pollution

------ ERRORS --------
Some tables contained errors as evident after running some SQL queries as outlined in the SQL code document. The errors were removed as part
of the data cleaning process.
The table affected included the water_pollution table. The auditors are going to conduct an independent investigation to find if there were
mistakes.

-----LOCATION -------
The delve into the location table clearly shows that there are enough records and that the entire country was covered during the survey exercise.
Our dataset represents the actual situation on the ground. 60% of the water sources are in the rural areas.

-----POPULATION -------
According to the global_water_access table, the national population of Maji Ndogo is 27,628,100 people. But the accurate number from the water_source
the table is 27,628,140 this shows that our records have the same information across different tables.
The average population per water source is; tap_in_home	644 	tap_in_home_broken	649		well	279		shared_tap	2071	river	699. This explains
a lot, first the tap in home records are combined taps of several homes, taking an average of 6 people per household then 644/6 ~app 100 taps 
per one record. 

-------TAPS AND WELLS --------------- 
The shared taps are the most concerning, with 2000 people per tap, no wonder there are long waiting times in the queues, adding more public taps
should be the priority of the government.
There are on average 279 people served per well. There are 17383 wells but out of those 12467 are contaminated, that's a huge number, right?

----------SOLUTION---------------------
Let's start with the solution.
We need to make data-driven decisions on how to fix the water sources that need improvement. After ranking the sources according to the number
of people served, as shown in the SQL CODE LINE 148, we get this table
                            shared_tap	        11945272	  1
                            well	              4841724	    2
                            tap_in_home_broken	3799720	    3
                            river              	2362544	    4
We have excluded the tap in the home because they are in the best condition and no improvement is needed. Shared taps need to be improved first,
then wells, and then repairing broken taps in homes in that order. But what taps are we going to fix?? 
Good, by using row_number ranking and window function, I can rank the sources according to the total number of people served and give the
engineers a fine list that they can follow to make improvements and track their progress.


----VISITS------------
Would you like us to look at the visit table? 
The survey took 924 days, which is about 2 and a half years. 
The average queue time is 123 minutes, which is about 2 hours, but some days have longer average hours than others. Saturday, for example,
has an average of 246 minutes while Sunday has 82 minutes.
The queue time also varies according to the time of the day. Morning hours have longer queues.

-------------INSIGHTS--------------
This survey aimed to identify the water sources people use, the conditions, and the time people spend in the queue.
By now there are some insights that we have uncovered in the numbers and characters.
    1. Most water sources are in the rural areas
    2. 43% of the people share taps, and 2000 people share one tap.
    3. 31% of the people have piped water but 45 of them face breakage problems and have no access to water.
    4. 18%of the people use well but only 28% of them are clean and safe to use.
    5. The citizens face long queue times averaging 120 minutes.
    6. In terms of queues:
        - Saturdays have the longest queues
        - Queues are longer in the evening and afternoon
        - Wednesday and Sunday have shorter queues.

------ START OF THE PLAN --------
1. To significantly cut down queue times for everyone, let's concentrate on enhancing the shared tap experience.
2. Resolving the contamination issue in most wells is crucial, as it brings substantial benefits to the majority of people that
    we need to address.
3. Benefiting the majority and concurrently diminishing wait times for others can be achieved by addressing and improving our 
    existing infrastructure; we need to focus on this.
4. Allocating resources more effectively calls for temporarily postponing the fixing of broken taps, a step we need to take at the moment.
5. To tap into abundant sources waiting to be optimized and enhanced, our engineers need to prepare for venturing into rural areas,
    which we need them to do.

---- PRACTICAL SOLUTION ------
1. For those communities using rivers, we can dispatch trucks to supply water as a short-term fix.
2. If the communities are using wells, we need to install UV filters and reverse osmosis filters in the wells as we look into what is 
  contaminating the water.
3. For shared taps, we can send tanks to the busiest taps and the busiest time of the day as we install extra taps to reduce the queue time
to 30 minutes.
4. Fixing the infrastructure though resource intensive, will benefit most people and therefore offers a significant impact.

------- AUDITOR REPORT------------
Let us weave the data threads to unveil the Maji Ndogo Narrative. 
First, the auditor report is back. Check to see if there are any discrepancies and if there is any pattern. Yes, 102 scores were wrongly recorded.
Luckily, we had not used the quality table so our earlier results are correct. What we did use is the type of water source, and according to 
the query, source_type is correctly recorded.
Who made the errors?
Let us investigate our employees, mistakes are normal but this could be done intentionally. Four of our employees made above-average errors,
Bello Azibo	26	
Malachi Mavuso	21	
Zuriel Matembo	17	
Lalitha Kaburi	7	
Further investigating these records, mention of corrupt officers is recorded by the auditor as statements from the citizens of Maji Ndogo.
This is a serious crime considering the dedication our President has put into finding a solution to the country's water crisis.

----- CHARTING THE DATA INTO MEANINGFUL VIEWs ------------
Now that we have understoood the situation of Maji Ndogo water sector, let us create meaningful view that provide essential insights to
decision makers. This will help discern the materials needed, plan the budget, identify areas that need immediate attention and guide our 
engineers on to the right direction by creating a job list.

----- WHERE TO START ------------
After creating a view and a CTE, we have a table showing the percentage of people per water source in the 5 differnt provinces.
Akatsi	5993306	23	14	10	49	5
Kilimani	6584764	20	13	12	47	8
Sokoto	5774434	15	16	10	38	21
Hawassa	3843810	24	15	15	43	4
Amanzi	5431826	7	28	24	38	3
From this table
  - We can see that most (21%) people in Sokoto use river water, so we can dispatch our drilling team to drill wells first. 
  - Majority of people in Amanzi use tap water (52%), but half of them (24%) are broken, a team of engineers can be sent to fix the broken infrastructure,
      this way we are going to connect most people to water as well as reduce queue time in the shared taps (38%).
  - Our drilling teams can then proceed to Akatsi, Then Kilimani and Afterwards Hawassa.
  - The team dispatched to clean wells will start in Hawassa then Akatsi and Afterwards Kilimani
Following these actions, we will have increased the number of people able to access clean water.

















